[SPACE AND ELECTRONIC SOUNDS]
>> What we're on the brink
of is a world of increasingly
intense, sophisticated
artificial intelligence.
>> Technology is evolving so
much faster than our society
has the ability to
protect us as citizens.
>> The robots are coming,
and they will destroy
our livelihoods.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We have a networked
intelligence that watches us,
knows everything about us, and
begins to try to change us.
>> Twitter has become the
world's number one news site.
>> Technology is
never good or bad.
It's what we do
with the technology.
>> Eventually, millions of
people are going to be thrown
out of jobs because their skills
are going to be obsoleted.
>> Mass unemployment,
greater inequalities,
even social unrest.
>> Regardless of whether
to be afraid or not afraid,
the change is coming,
and nobody can stop it.
>> We've invested
huge amounts of money,
and so it stands to
reason that the military,
with their own desires, are
going to start to use these
technologies.
>> Autonomous weapons systems
could lead to a global arms
race to rival the nuclear era.
>> We know what the answer is.
They'll eventually
be killing us.
[TANK FIRES]
>> These technology leaps
are going to yield incredible
miracles and incredible horrors.
>> We created it, so I think
as we move forward this
intelligence will
contain parts of us.
And I think the
question is will it
contain the good parts
or the bad parts?
[ELECTRONIC WEAPONS FIRING]
>> The survivors called
the war Judgment Day.
They lived only to
face a new nightmare--
the war against the machines.
[SCREAMS]
>> I think we've
completely fucked this up.
I think Hollywood has managed
to inoculate the general public
against this question,
the idea of machines
that will take over the world.
>> Open the pod bay doors, Hal.
>> I'm sorry, Dave.
I'm afraid I can't do that.
>> Hal?
>> We've cried
wolf enough times.
>> Hal?
>> The public has stopped paying
attention because it feels like
science fiction.
Even sitting here talking
about it right now,
it feels a little bit silly,
a little bit like, oh, this
is an artifact of
some cheeseball movie.
>> The WOPR spends all its time
thinking about World War 3.
>> But it's not.
The general public is about
to get blindsided by this.
>> As a society,
and as individuals,
we're increasingly surrounded
by machine intelligence.
We carry this pocket device
in the palm of our hand
that we use to make a striking
array of life decisions right
now, aided by a set
of distant algorithms
that we have no
understanding of.
>> We're already pretty jaded
about the idea that we can talk
through our phone and that
it mostly understands us.
>> I found quite a
number of action films.
>> Five years ago, no way.
>> Robotics, machines that
see, and speak, and listen.
All that's real now.
And these technologies are
going to fundamentally change
our society.
>> Now we have this great
movement of self-driving cars.
Driving a car autonomously
can move people's lives
into a better place.
>> I've lost a number of family
members, including my mother,
my brother and sister-in-law,
and their kids to automobile
accidents.
It's pretty clear we
can almost eliminate
car accidents with automation.
30,000 lives in the US
alone, about a million
around the world per year.
>> In health care, early
indicators are the name
of the game in that space.
So that's another place where
it can save somebody's life.
>> Here in the
breast cancer center,
all the things that the
radiologist's brain does in two
minutes, a computer
does instantaneously.
The computer has looked
at one billion mammograms.
And it takes that
data and applies it
to this image instantaneously.
So the medical
application is profound.
>> Another really exciting
area that we're seeing a lot
of development in is actually
understanding our genetic code,
and using that to both diagnose
disease and create personalized
treatments.
>> The primary application
of all these machines will be
to extend our own intelligence.
We'll be able to make
ourselves smarter,
and we'll be better
at solving problems.
We don't have to age.
We'll actually understand aging,
and we'll be able to stop it.
>> There's really no limit to
what intelligent machines can
do for the human race.
>> How could a smarter machine
not be a better machine?
It's hard to say exactly
when I began to think
that that was a bit naive.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Stuart Russell-- he's
basically a god in the field
of artificial intelligence.
He wrote the book that
almost every university uses.
>> I used to say it's the
best-selling AI textbook.
Now I just say it's the PDF
that's stolen most often.
Artificial intelligence is
about making computers smart.
And from the point of
view of the public, what
counts as AI is just
something that's surprisingly
intelligent compared
to what we thought
computers would
typically be able to do.
>> AI is a field of research to
try to basically simulate all
kinds of human capabilities.
We're in an AI era.
Silicon Valley has
the ability to focus
on one bright, shiny thing.
It was social networking
and social media
over the last decade,
and it's pretty clear
that the bit has flipped.
>> And it starts with
machine learning.
>> When we look back at this
moment, what was the first AI?
It's not sexy, and it isn't the
thing we consume in the movies.
But you'd make a great case
that Google created not a search
engine, but a godhead--
a way for people to ask
any question they wanted
and get the answer they needed.
>> Most people are not aware
that what Google is doing is
actually a form of
artificial intelligence.
They just go there,
they type in a thing,
Google gives them the answer.
>> With each search, we
train it to be better.
Sometimes we type in the search
and it tells us the answer
before you've finished
asking the question.
Who is the president
of Kazakhstan?
And it'll just tell you.
You don't have to go to the
Kazakhstan national website
to find out.
Didn't used to be
able to do that.
>> That is artificial
intelligence.
Year from now, when
we try to understand,
we will say, how did we miss it?
>> It's one of these
striking contradictions that
we're facing.
Google and Facebook et al.
Have built businesses on giving
us, as a society, free stuff.
But it's a Faustian bargain.
They're extracting something
from us in exchange.
But we don't know what code
is running on the other side
and why.
We have no idea.
It does strike right at
the issue of how much we
should trust these machines.
>> I use computers
literally for everything.
[LAUGHS]
>> There's so many
computer advancements now,
and it's become such a
big part of our lives.
>> It's incredible
what a computer can do.
You can actually carry your
computer in your purse!
I mean, how awesome is that?
[LAUGHS]
>> I think most technology is
meant to make things easier
and simpler for all of us.
So hopefully that just
remains the focus.
>> I think everybody
loves their computers.
[LAUGHS]
>> People don't realize they
are constantly being negotiated
with by machines.
Whether it's the price of
products in your Amazon cart,
whether you can get on
a particular flight,
whether you can reserve a room
at a particular hotel, what
you're experiencing are
machine learning algorithms
that have determined
that a person like
you is willing to pay $0.02
more and is changing the price.
>> Now, computer looks
at millions of people
simultaneously for
very subtle patterns.
It can take seemingly
innocent digital footprints,
such as someone's
playlist on Spotify,
or stuff that they
bought on Amazon,
and then use algorithms
to translate this
into a very detailed and very
accurate intimate profile.
>> There is a dossier on each
of us that is so extensive it
would be possibly accurate to
say that they know more about
you than your mother does.
>> Major cause of the recent AI
breakthrough it isn't just that
some dude had a brilliant
insight or something,
but simply that we have much
bigger data to train them
on and vastly better computers.
>> Magic is in the data.
It's a ton of data.
I mean, it's data that's
never existed before.
We've never had
this data before.
>> We've created technologies
that allow us to capture vast
amounts of information.
If you think of a
billion cell phones
on the planet with gyroscopes,
and accelerometers, fingerprint
readers, couple that with a
GPS and the photos they take,
and the tweets that
you send, we're
all giving off huge amounts
of data individually.
Cars that drive as
the cameras on them
suck up information about
the world around them.
The satellites that are now in
orbit the size of a toaster.
The infrared about the
vegetation on the planet.
The buoys that are
out in the oceans
to feed into the climate models.
And the NSA, the
CIA, as they collect
information about the
geopolitical situations.
The world today is literally
swimming in this data.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Back in 2012, IBM estimated
that an average human being
leaves 500 megabytes of
digital footprints every day.
If you wanted to back up
only one day worth of data
that humanity produces and you
print it out on a letter size
paper, double-sided, font
size 12, and you stack it up,
it would reach from the
surface of the Earth to the sun
four times over.
This every day.
>> The data itself
is not good or evil.
It's how it's used.
We're relying really on the
goodwill of these people
and on the policies
of these companies.
There is no legal requirement
for how they can and should
use that kind of data.
>> That, to me, is at the
heart of the trust issue.
>> Right now there's a giant
race for creating machines that
are as smart as humans.
Google-- they're
working on what's
really the kind of
Manhattan Project
of artificial intelligence.
They've got the most money.
They've got the most talent.
They're buying up AI companies
and robotics companies.
>> People still think of
Google as a search engine,
and their email provider, and a
lot of other things that we use
on a daily basis.
But behind that search box
are 10 million servers.
That makes Google the
most powerful computing
platform in the world.
Google is now working on an
AI computing platform that
will have 100 million servers.
So when you're
interacting with Google,
we're just seeing the
toenail of something that
is a giant beast in the making.
And the truth is I'm not
even sure that Google
knows what it's becoming.
>> If you look inside of what
algorithms are being used
at Google, it's technology
largely from the '80s.
So these are models that
you train by showing them
a 1, a 2, and a 3.
And it learns not what
a 1 is or what a 2 is.
It learns what the difference
between a 1 and a 2 is.
It's just a computation.
>> In the last half-decade where
we've made this rapid progress,
it has all been in
pattern recognition.
>> Most of the good,
old-fashioned AI was when we
would tell our computers how
to play a game like chess,
from the old paradigm where you
just tell the computer exactly
what to do.
>> This is "Jeopardy."
[THEME MUSIC]
The IBM Challenge.
[APPLAUSE]
>> No one at the time had
thought that a machine could
have the precision,
and the confidence,
and the speed to play Jeopardy
well enough against the best
humans.
>> Let's play Jeopardy.
Four-letter word for the iron
fitting on the hoof of a horse.
Watson?
>> What is shoe?
>> You are right.
You get to pick.
>> Literary character
APB for $800.
>> Answer-- the Daily Double.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Watson actually got its
knowledge by reading Wikipedia
and 200 million pages of
natural language documents.
>> You can't program every
line of how the world works.
The machine has to
learn by reading.
>> Now we come to Watson.
Who is Bram Stoker?
And the wager--
[CHEERING]
Hello!
$17,973.
$41,413, and a
two-day total of--
>> Watson is trained on
huge amounts of text.
But it's not like it
understands what it's saying.
It doesn't know that water makes
things wet by touching water
and by seeing the way things
behave in the world the way
you and I do.
>> A lot of language AI today
is not building logical models
of how the world works.
Rather, it's looking
at how the words appear
in the context of other words.
>> David Ferrucci
developed IBM's Watson.
And somebody asked
him, does Watson think?
And he said, does
a submarine swim?
And what he meant was
when they developed
submarines they borrowed
basic principles of swimming
from fish.
But a submarine swims
farther and faster than fish
and can carry a huge payload.
It out-swims fish.
>> Watson winning the game
of Jeopardy will go down
in the history of AI as
a significant milestone.
We tend to be amazed when
the machine does so well.
I'm even more amazed when
the computer beats humans
at things that humans
are naturally good that.
This is how we make progress.
In the early days of the
Google Brain project,
I gave the team a very
simple instruction,
which was build the biggest
neural network possible,
like a thousand computers.
>> A neural net is something
very close to a simulation
of how the brain works.
It's very probabilistic, but
with contextual relevance.
>> In your brain, you have
long neurons that connect
to thousands of other neurons.
And you have these pathways
that are formed and forged based
on what the brain needs to do.
When a baby tries
something and it succeeds,
there's a reward, and
that pathway that created
the success is strengthened.
If it fails at something,
the pathway is weakened.
And so, over time,
the brain becomes
honed to be good at the
environment around it.
>> Really, it's just
getting machines to learn
by themselves.
It's called deep learning.
And deep learning
and neural networks
mean roughly the same thing.
>> Deep learning is a totally
different approach where
the computer learns
more like a toddler,
by just getting a lot of data
and eventually figuring stuff
out.
The computer just gets
smarter and smarter
as it has more experiences.
>> So imagine, if you
will, a neural network,
like a thousand computers.
And it wakes up not
knowing anything,
and we made it watch
YouTube for a week.
[MUSIC - PSY, "GANGNAM STYLE"]
[SCREAMS]
[GIGGLING]
>> You're annoying.
That really hurt!
>> And so, after watching
YouTube for a week,
what would they learn?
We had a hypothesis they'll
learn to detect commonly
occurring objects in videos.
And so we know that human
faces appear a lot in videos.
So we looked, and
lo and behold, there
was a neuron that had learned
to detect human faces.
>> (ANGRILY) Leave
Britney alone!
>> And there were, well, what
else appears in videos a lot?
So we looked.
And to our surprise,
there was actually
a neuron that had
learned to detect cats.
[SILLY MUSIC PLAYING]
I still remember
scenes of recognition.
Wow, there's a cat!
OK, cool.
Great.
>> It's all pretty innocuous
when you're thinking about
the future.
It all seems kind of
harmless and benign.
But we're making
cognitive architectures
that will fly farther
and faster than us
and carry a bigger payload.
And they won't be
warm and fuzzy.
>> I think that, in
three to five years,
you will see a computer
system that will be able
to autonomously learn
how to understand,
how to build understanding, not
unlike the way the human mind
works.
>> Whatever that lunch was,
it was certainly delicious.
>> Simply some of
Robby's synthetics.
>> He's your cook, too?
>> He even manufactures
the raw materials.
Come round here, Robby, I'll
show you how this works.
One introduces a sample of human
food through this aperture.
Down here there's a small,
built-in chemical laboratory
where he'll analyze it.
Later he can reproduce
identical molecules
in any shape or quantity.
>> That's a housewife's dream.
>> Meet Baxter, revolutionary
new category of robots with
common sense.
>> Baxter is a really
good example of the kind
of competition we
face from machines.
Baxter can do almost anything
we can do with our hands.
Baxter costs about
what a minimum wage
worker makes in a year.
But Baxter won't be taking
the place of one minimum wage
worker.
He'll be taking
the place of three
because they never get tired.
They never take breaks.
>> That's probably the first
thing we're going to see--
displacement of jobs.
They're going to be
done quicker, faster,
cheaper by machines.
>> Our ability to even stay
current is so insanely limited
compared to the machines
we built. For example,
now we have this great movement
of Uber and Lyft kind of making
transportation cheaper and
democratizing transportation,
which is great.
The next step is going
to be that they're all
going to be replaced
by driverless cars.
And then all the
Uber and Lyft drivers
have to find
something new to do.
>> There are four million
professional drivers
in the United States.
They're unemployed soon.
Seven million people
that do data entry.
Those people are
going to be jobless.
>> A job isn't just
about money, right?
On a biological level,
it serves a purpose,
becomes a defining thing.
When the jobs went away
in any given civilization,
it doesn't take long until
that turns into violence.
[SHOUTING]
[EXPLOSIONS]
>> We face a giant divide
between rich and poor
because that's what automation
and AI will provoke--
a greater divide between
the haves and the have nots.
Right now, it's working
into the middle class,
into white collar jobs.
IBM's Watson does
business analytics
that we used to pay a business
analyst $300 an hour to do.
>> Today, you go into
college to be a doctor,
to be an accountant,
to be a journalist.
It's unclear that there's
going to be jobs there for you.
>> If someone is planning for
a 40-year career in radiology
just reading images, I think
that could be a challenge
to the new graduates of today.
[BEEPING]
>> Today we're going
to do a robotic case.
>> The Da Vinci robot is
currently utilized by a variety
of surgeons for its accuracy
and its ability to avoid
the inevitable fluctuations
of the human hand.
Anybody who watches this
feels the amazingness of it.
You look through the scope,
and you see the claw hand
holding that woman's ovary.
Humanity was
resting right there,
in the hands of this robot.
People say it's the future.
But it's not the future.
It's the present.
>> If you think about
a surgical robot,
there's often not a lot of
intelligence in these things.
But over time, as we put
more and more intelligence
into these systems,
the surgical robots
can actually learn from
each robot surgery.
They're tracking the movements.
They're understanding what
worked and what didn't work.
And eventually the robot
for routine surgeries
is going to be able to
perform that entirely
by itself, or with
human supervision.
>> Normally, I do about 150
cases of hysterectomies,
let's say.
And now most of them
are done robotically.
I do maybe one open case a year.
So do I feel uncomfortable?
Of course I do
feel uncomfortable,
because I don't remember how
to open patients anymore.
>> It seems that we're
feeding it and creating it,
but, in a way, we are a slave
to the technology because we
can't go back.
>> The machines are taking
bigger and bigger bites out
of our skill set at an
ever-increasing speed.
And so we've got to
run faster and faster
to keep ahead of the machines.
>> How do I look?
>> Good.
>> Are you attracted to me?
>> What?
You give me indications
that you are.
>> I do?
>> Yes.
>> This is the future
we're headed into.
We want to design
our companions.
And we're going to like to
see a human face on the AI.
Therefore, gaming our emotions
will be depressingly easy.
We're not that complicated.
We're simple--
stimulus-response.
I can make you like me basically
by smiling at you a lot.
AI is going to be fantastic
at manipulating us.
>> So you've developed a
technology that can sense what
people are feeling.
>> Right.
We've developed
technology that can
read your facial
expressions and map that
to a number of emotional states.
15 years ago, I
had just finished
my undergraduate studies
in computer science.
And it struck me
that I was spending
a lot of time interacting with
my laptops and my devices.
Yet these devices had absolutely
no clue how I was feeling.
I started thinking, what
if this device could
sense that I was stressed
or I was having a bad day?
What would that open up?
Hi, first graders?
How are you?
Can I get a hug?
We have kids interact
with the technology.
A lot of it is still
in development.
But it was just amazing.
Who likes robots?
[GASPING]
Who wants to have a
robot in their house?
[GASPING]
What would you use a
robot for, Jack, at home?
>> I would use it to ask my
mom very hard math questions.
>> OK.
[LAUGHS] What about you, Theo?
>> I would use it
for scaring people.
>> All right.
So start by smiling.
Nice.
Brow furrow.
Nice one.
Eyebrow raised.
This generation,
technology is just
surrounding them all the time.
It's almost like they expect
to have robots in their homes,
and they expect these robots
to be socially intelligent.
What makes robots smart?
>> Put them in, like, a
math or biology class.
>> I think you would
have to train it.
>> All right.
Let's walk over here.
So if you smile and you
raise your eyebrows,
it's going to run over to you.
It's coming over!
What?
[LAUGHTER]
But if you look angry,
it's going to run away.
>> Run away?
[ROARING]
>> Oh, that's good.
We're training computers to
read and recognize emotions.
Ready, set, go!
And the response so far
has been really amazing.
People are integrating this into
health apps, meditation apps,
robots, cars.
We're going to see
how this unfolds.
[CHILDREN SHOUTING EXCITEDLY]
Robots can contain AI.
But the robot is just a
physical instantiation,
and the artificial
intelligence is the brain.
And so brains can exist purely
in software-based systems.
They don't need to
have a physical form.
Robots can exist without
any artificial intelligence.
We have a lot of dumb
robots out there.
But a dumb robot can be
a smart robot overnight,
given the right software,
given the right sensors.
>> We can't help but impute
motive into inanimate objects.
We do it with machines.
We'll treat them like children.
We'll treat them
like surrogates.
>> Bye!
>> And we'll pay the price.
>> OK, welcome to ATR.
My purpose is to have a
more human-like robot which
has the human-like
intention and desire.
The name of the robot is Erica.
Erica is the most advanced
human-like robot in the world,
I think.
Erica can gaze at your face.
[SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> Robot can be pretty
good conversation partners,
especially for the elderly,
and young children,
handicapped people.
[SPEAKING JAPANESE]
When we talk to the robot, we
don't feel the social barriers,
social pressures.
Finally, everybody
accepts the android
as just our friend,
our partners.
We have implemented
a simple desire.
She wants to be well-recognized,
and she wants to take risks.
If a robot could have
intentional desires,
the robot can understand other
people's intentional desires.
[SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
That means tighter
relationships with people,
and that means they
may like each other.
That means-- well, I'm not sure.
To love each other?
>> We build artificial
intelligence,
and the very first thing we
want to do is replicate us.
I think the key point will come
when all the major senses are
replicated.
Sight, touch, smell.
When we replicate our senses
is that when it becomes alive.
>> So many of our machines are
being built to understand us.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> But what happens when an
anthropomorphic discovers that
they can adjust their loyalty?
Adjust their courage?
Adjust their avarice?
Adjust their cunning?
>> The average person, they
don't see killer robots going
down the streets.
They're like, what
are you talking about?
Man, we want to make sure
that we don't have killer
robots going down the street.
Once they're going down
the street, it is too late.
>> The thing that worries me
right now, that keeps me awake,
is the development of
autonomous weapons.
[HEAVY RUMBLING]
[JET ENGINE TAKING OFF]
Up to now, people
have expressed unease
about drones, which are
remotely-piloted aircraft.
[OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING]
If you take a drone's camera,
feed it into the AI system,
it's a very easy step from here
to fully autonomous weapons
that choose their own targets
and release their own missiles.
The expected lifespan
of a human being
in that kind of
battle environment
will be measured in seconds.
>> At one point, drones
were science fiction.
And now they've become
the normal thing in war.
There's over 10,000 in the
US military inventory alone.
But they're not just
a US phenomenon.
There's more than 80
countries that operate them.
>> It stands to reason that
people making some of the most
important and difficult
decisions in the world are
going to start to use
and implement artificial
intelligence.
The Air Force just
designed a $400 billion
jet program to put
pilots in the sky.
And a $500 AI, designed by a
couple of graduate students,
is beating the best human
pilots with a relatively simple
algorithm.
AI will have as big an
impact on the military
as the combustion engine had
at the turn of the century.
It will literally
touch everything
that the military does,
from driverless convoys
delivering logistical supplies,
to unmanned drones delivering
medical aid, to
computational propaganda,
trying to win the hearts
and minds of a population.
And so it stands to
reason that whoever
has the best AI will
probably achieve dominance
on this planet.
[THUNDER CRACKS]
>> At some point in
the early 21st century,
all of mankind was
united in celebration.
We marveled at our
own magnificence
as we gave birth to AI.
>> AI.
You mean artificial
intelligence.
>> A singular consciousness
that spawned an entire race
of machines.
We don't know who struck
first, us or them,
but we know that it was
us that scorched the sky.
[THUNDER CRACKS]
>> There's a long history
of science fiction not just
predicting the future,
but shaping the future.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING]
Arthur Conan Doyle,
writing before World War I
on the danger of
how submarines might
be used to carry out
civilian blockades.
At the time he's
writing this fiction
the Royal Navy made
fun of Arthur Conan
Doyle for this absurd
idea that submarines
could be useful in war.
[EXPLOSION]
One of the things
we've seen in history
is that our attitude
towards technology,
but also ethics, are
very context-dependent.
For example, the submarine--
nations like Great Britain
and even the United States
found it horrifying
to use the submarine.
In fact, the German use of the
submarine to carry out attacks
was the reason why the United
States joined World War I.
But move the timeline forward.
>> The United States of America
was suddenly and deliberately
attacked by the Empire of Japan.
>> Five hours
after Pearl Harbor,
the order goes out to commit
unrestricted submarine warfare
against Japan.
[EXPLOSION]
So Arthur Conan Doyle
turned out to be right.
>> That's the great old
line about science fiction.
It's a lie that tells the truth.
>> Fellow executives, it gives
me great pleasure to introduce
you to the future of
law enforcement, ED-209.
>> This isn't just a
question of science fiction.
This is about what's next, about
what's happening right now.
>> The role of intelligent
systems is growing very rapidly
in warfare.
Everyone is pushing
in the unmanned realm.
>> Today, the Secretary of
Defense is very, very clear.
We will not create fully
autonomous attack vehicles.
Not everyone is going
to hold themselves
to that same set of values.
And when China and Russia start
deploying autonomous vehicles
that can attack and
kill, what's the move
that we're going to make?
>> You can't say, well, we're
going to use autonomous weapons
for our military dominance but
no one else is going to use
them.
If you make these
weapons, they're
going to be used to attack human
populations in large numbers.
[GUNSHOTS]
Autonomous weapons
are, by their nature,
weapons of mass
destruction because it
doesn't need a human being
to guide it or carry it.
You only need one person
to write a little program.
>> It just captures the
complexity of this field.
It is cool.
It is important.
It is amazing.
It is also frightening.
And it's all about trust.
>> It's an open letter about
artificial intelligence,
signed by some of the
biggest names in science.
What do they want?
Ban the use of
autonomous weapons.
>> The author stated, quote,
"Autonomous weapons have been
described as the third
revolution in warfare."
>> Thousand artificial
intelligence specialists
calling for a global
ban on killer robots.
>> This open letter basically
says that we should redefine
the goal of the field of
artificial intelligence away
from just creating pure,
undirected intelligence towards
spreading beneficial
intelligence.
>> The development of
AI is not going to stop.
It is going to continue
and get better.
If the international community
isn't putting certain controls
on this, people will develop
things that can do anything.
>> The letter says that
we are years, not decades,
away from these
weapons being deployed.
So first of all--
>> We had 6,000
signatories of that letter,
including many of the
major figures in the field.
I'm getting a lot of visits
from high-ranking officials who
wish to emphasize that American
military dominance is very
important and autonomous weapons
may be part of the defense
department's plan.
That's very, very scary
because a value system
of military developments
of technology
is not the same as the value
system of the human race.
>> Out of the concerns about
the possibility that this
technology might be a
threat to human existence,
a number of the technologists
have funded the Future of Life
Institute to try to grapple
with these problems.
All of these guys are secretive,
and so it's interesting to me
to see them all altogether.
>> Everything we have is a
result of our intelligence.
It's not the result of
our big, scary teeth,
or our large claws, or
our enormous muscles.
It's because we're actually
relatively intelligent.
And among my
generation, we're all
having what we call holy cow,
or holy something else moments,
because we see that the
technology is accelerating
faster than we expected.
>> I remember sitting around
the table there with some
of the best and the
smartest minds in the world.
And what really
struck me was maybe
the human brain is not
able to fully grasp
the complexity of the world
that we're confronted with.
>> As it's currently
constructed,
the road that AI is
following heads off a cliff.
And we need to
change the direction
that we're going so
that we don't take
the human race off the cliff.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Google acquired
DeepMind several years ago.
DeepMind operates as a
semi-independent subsidiary
of Google.
The thing that makes
DeepMind unique
is that DeepMind is
absolutely focused on creating
digital super intelligence,
an AI that is vastly
smarter than any human
on Earth and ultimately
smarter than all humans
on Earth combined.
>> This is from the DeepMind
reinforcement learning system.
Basically, wakes up
like a newborn baby
and is shown the screen
of an Atari video game.
And then has to learn
to play the video game.
It knows nothing about objects,
about motion, about time.
It only knows that there's
an image on the screen
and there's a score.
So if your baby woke
up the day it was born,
and by late afternoon was
playing 40 different Atari
video games at a superhuman
level, you would be terrified.
You would say my
baby is possessed.
Send it back.
>> The DeepMind system
can win at any game.
It can already beat all
the original Atari games.
It is superhuman.
It plays the games
at super-speed,
in less than a minute.
>> DeepMind turned
to another challenge,
and the challenge
was the game of Go,
which people have generally
argued has been beyond
the power of computers to play
with the best human Go players.
First they challenged
a European Go champion.
Then they challenged
a Korean Go champion.
>> Please start again.
>> And they were able to win
both times in kind of striking
fashion.
>> You were reading articles in
the "New York Times" years ago,
talking about how Go would
take a hundred years for us
to solve.
>> People said, well, you know,
but that's still just a board.
Poker is an art.
Poker involves reading people.
Poker involves
lying and bluffing.
It's not an exact thing.
That will never be a computer.
You can't do that.
They took the best poker
players in the world,
and it took seven
days for the computer
to start demolishing the humans.
So it's the best poker
player in the world.
It's the best Go
And the pattern here is that
AI might take a little while
to wrap its tentacles
around a new skill,
but when it does, when it
gets it, it is unstoppable.
>> DeepMind's AI has
administrator-level access
to Google's servers to optimize
energy usage at the data
centers.
However, this could be an
unintentional Trojan horse.
DeepMind has to have complete
control of the data centers.
So with a little
software update,
that AI could take
complete control
of the whole Google
system, which
means they can do anything.
They can look at all your
data and do anything.
>> Were rapidly headed towards
digital superintelligence that
far exceeds any human.
I think it's very obvious.
>> The problem is we're
not going to suddenly hit
human-level intelligence and
say, OK, let's stop research.
It's going to go beyond
human-level intelligence
into what's called
superintelligence,
and that's anything
smarter than us.
>> AI, at the superhuman
level, if we succeed with that,
will be by far the most powerful
invention we've ever made,
and the last invention
we ever have to make.
And if we create AI
that's smarter than us,
we have to be open
to the possibility
that we might actually
lose control to them.
>> Let's say you give it some
objective, like curing cancer,
and then you discover that the
way it chooses to go about that
is actually in conflict with
a lot of other things you care
about.
>> AI doesn't have to be
evil to destroy humanity.
If AI has a goal and humanity
just happens to be in the way,
it will destroy humanity
as a matter of course
without even thinking about it.
No hard feelings.
It's just like if
we're building a road
and an anthill happens to be
in the way, we don't hate ants.
We're just building a road.
And so, goodbye anthill.
>> It's tempting to
dismiss these concerns
because it's like something that
might happen in a few decades
or a hundred years,
so why worry?
>> But if you go back
to September 11, 1933,
Ernest Rutherford, who was
the most well-known nuclear
physicist of his time, said
that the possibility of ever
extracting useful amounts of
energy from the transmutation
of atoms, as he called
it, was moonshine.
The next morning, Leo Szilard,
who was a much younger
physicist, read this
and got really annoyed,
and figured out how to make
a nuclear chain reaction just
a few months later.
[EXPLOSION]
>> We have spent more than
$2 billion on the greatest
scientific gamble in history.
>> So when people say that,
oh, this is so far off
in the future we don't
have to worry about it,
there might only be three, four
breakthroughs of that magnitude
that will get us from here
to superintelligent machines.
>> If it's going to take 20
years to figure out how to keep
AI beneficial, then
we should start today,
not at the last second when some
dudes drinking Red Bull decide
to flip the switch
and test the thing.
>> We have five years.
I think digital
superintelligence
will happen in my lifetime.
100%.
>> When this happens, it will be
surrounded by a bunch of people
who are really just excited
about the technology.
They want to see it succeed,
but they're not anticipating
that it can get out of control.
>> Oh, my god.
I trust my computer so much.
That's an amazing question.
>> I don't trust my computer.
If it's on, I take it off.
Even when it's off, I
still think it's on.
You know?
Like, you really cannot--
like the webcams, you don't know
if someone might turn it on.
You don't know.
>> I don't trust my computer.
In my phone, every time they
ask we send your information
to Apple, every time I--
so I don't trust my phone.
>> OK.
So part of it is,
yes, I do trust it
because it would be
really hard to get
through the day in the
way our world is set up
without computers.
>> Trust is such a
human experience.
I have a patient coming in
with intracranial aneurysm.
They want to look in my eyes
and know that they can trust
this person with their life.
>> I'm not horribly
concerned about anything.
>> Good.
>> Part of that is because
I have confidence in you.
>> This procedure
we're doing today,
20 years ago was
essentially impossible.
We just didn't have the
materials and the technologies.
Get on that corner!
Could it be any more difficult?
My God!
So the coil is barely
in there right now.
It's just a feather
holding it in.
It's a nervous time.
We're just in purgatory,
intellectual, humanistic
purgatory.
An AI might know
exactly what to do here.
We got the coil
into the aneurysm,
but it wasn't in
tremendously well
that I knew that it would stay.
So with a maybe 20% risk
of a very bad situation,
I elected to just
bring her back.
Because of my
relationship with her
and knowing the difficulties
of coming in and having
the procedure, I
consider things.
I should only consider
the safest possible route
to achieve success.
But I had to stand there for
10 minutes agonizing about it.
The computer feels nothing.
The computer just does
what it's supposed
to do, better and better.
I want to be AI in this case.
But can AI be compassionate?
I mean, it's everybody's
question about AI.
We are the sole
embodiment of humanity.
And it's a stretch
for us to accept
that a machine can be
compassionate and loving
in that way.
Part of me doesn't
believe in magic.
But part of me has
faith that there
is something beyond
the sum of the parts,
that there is at least a
oneness in our shared ancestry,
our shared biology, our shared
history, some connection there
beyond machine.
So then you have the
other side of that is,
does the computer
know it's conscious,
or can it be conscious,
or does it care?
Does it need to be conscious?
Does it need to be aware?
>> I do not think that a
robot could ever be conscious.
>> Unless they
programmed it that way.
>> Conscious?
No.
>> No.
>> I mean, I think a robot could
be programmed to be conscious.
How do they program it
to do everything else?
>> That's another big part
of artificial intelligence,
is to make them conscious
and make them feel.
>> Back in 2005, we started
trying to build machines with
self-awareness.
This robot, to begin with,
didn't know what it was.
All it knew is that it needed
to do something like walk.
Through trial and
error it figured out
how to walk using
its imagination.
And then it walked away.
And then we did
something very cruel.
We chopped off a leg and
watched what happened.
At the beginning, it didn't
quite know what had happened.
But over by the period of a
day, it then began to limp.
And then, a year ago, we
were training an AI system
for a live demonstration.
We wanted to show how we wave
all these objects in front
of the camera and the AI
can recognize the objects.
And so we're
preparing this demo,
and we had on the side
screen this ability
to watch what certain
neurons were responding to.
And suddenly we noticed
that one of the neurons
was tracking faces.
It was tracking our faces
as we were moving around.
Now, the spooky
thing about this is
that we never trained the
system to recognize human faces.
And yet somehow it
learned to do that.
Even though these
robots are very simple,
we can see there's something
else going on there.
It's not just programmed.
So this is just the beginning.
>> I often think about
that beach in Kitty Hawk,
the 1903 flight by
Orville and Wilbur Wright.
It was a kind of a canvas
plane, and it's wood and iron.
And it gets off the
ground for what?
A minute and 20 seconds on
this windy day before touching
back down again.
And it was just around 65
summers or so after that moment
that you have a 747
taking off from JFK.
A major concern of
someone on the airplane
might be whether or not their
salt-free diet meal is going
to be coming to them or not.
We have a whole infrastructure
with travel agents and tower
control, and it's all casual,
and it's all part of the world.
Right now, as far as
we've come with machines
that think and solve problems,
we're at Kitty Hawk now.
We're in the wind.
We have our tattered canvas
planes up in the air.
But what happens in
65 summers or so?
We will have machines that
are beyond human control.
Should we worry about that?
I'm not sure it's going to help.
>> Nobody has any idea today
what it means for a robot to be
conscious.
There is no such thing.
There are a lot of smart
people, and I have a great deal
of respect for them.
But the truth is machines
are natural psychopaths.
>> Fear came back
into the market.
>> Went down 800, nearly
1,000 in a heartbeat.
>> I mean, it is
classic capitulation.
>> There are some people who
are proposing it with some kind
of fat finger error.
>> Take the flash crash of 2010.
In a matter of minutes, a
trillion dollars in value
was lost in the stock market.
>> The Dow dropped nearly
1,000 points in a half hour.
>> So what went wrong?
By that point in
time, more than 60%
of all the trades that took
place on the stock exchange
were actually being
initiated by computers.
>> Panic selling
on the way down,
and all of a sudden
it stopped on a dime.
It's all happening
in real time, folks.
>> The short story of what
happened in the flash crash is
that algorithms
responded to algorithms.
And it compounded upon itself
over and over and over again
in a matter of minutes.
>> At one point, the market
fell as if down a well.
>> There is no regulatory body
that can adapt quickly enough
to prevent potentially
disastrous consequences of AI
operating in our
financial systems.
They are so prime
for manipulation.
>> Let's talk about the speed
with which we are watching this
market deteriorate.
>> That's the type of AI
run amok that scares people.
>> When you give them a goal,
they will relentlessly pursue
that goal.
How many computer programs
are there like this?
Nobody knows.
>> One of the fascinating
aspects about AI in general is
that no one really
understands how it works.
Even the people who create AI
don't really fully understand.
Because it has
millions of elements,
it becomes completely
impossible for a human being
to understand what's going on.
>> Microsoft had set up this
artificial intelligence called
Tay on Twitter
which was a chatbot.
They started out in the morning,
and Tay was starting to tweet
and learning from stuff
that was being sent to him
from other Twitter people.
Because some people like troll
attacked him, within 24 hours
the Microsoft bot became
a terrible person.
They had to literally
pull Tay off the net
because he had turned
into a monster,
a misanthropic, racist, horrible
person you never want to meet.
And nobody had foreseen this.
>> The whole idea of AI is that
we are not telling it exactly
how to achieve a given
outcome or a goal.
AI develops on its own.
>> We're worried about
superintelligent AI,
the master chess player
that will outmaneuver us.
But AI won't have
to actually be that
smart to have massively
disruptive effects
on human civilization.
We've seen over
the last century,
it didn't necessarily take a
genius to knock history off
in a particular direction.
And it won't take a genius
AI to do the same thing.
>> Bogus election news stories
generated more engagement
on Facebook than
top real stories.
>> Facebook really is
the elephant in the room.
>> AI running
Facebook news feed,
the task for AI is
keeping users engaged.
But no one really
understands exactly how
this AI is achieving this goal.
>> Facebook is building an
elegant mirrored wall around
us, a mirror that we can ask
who's the fairest of them all,
and it will answer you,
you, time and again.
Slowly begin to warp
our sense of reality,
warp our sense of
politics, history,
global events, until determining
what's true and what's not true
is virtually impossible.
>> The problem is that AI
doesn't understand that.
AI just had a mission--
maximize user engagement--
and achieved that.
Nearly two billion people spend
nearly one hour on average
a day basically
interacting with AI that
is shaping their experience.
Even Facebook engineers,
they don't like fake news.
It's very bad business.
They want to get
rid of fake news.
It's just very difficult to do
because how do you recognize
news as fake if you cannot read
all of those news personally?
>> There's so much
active misinformation,
and it's packaged very well, and
it looks the same when you see
it on a Facebook page or
you turn on your television.
>> It's not terribly
sophisticated,
but it is terribly powerful.
And what it means is that
your view of the world,
which 20 years ago
was determined,
if you watched the nightly news,
by three different networks.
The three anchors who endeavored
to try to get it right
might have had a little
bias one way or the other
but, largely
speaking, we could all
agree on an objective reality.
Well, that objectivity is gone.
And Facebook has
completely annihilated it.
If most of your understanding
of how the world works
is derived from
Facebook, facilitated
by algorithmic software
that tries to show you
the news you want to see, that's
a terribly dangerous thing.
And the idea that we have
not only set that in motion,
but allowed bad faith actors
access to that information,
this is a recipe for disaster.
>> I think that there will
definitely be lots of bad
actors trying to manipulate
the world with AI.
2016 was a perfect example
of an election where
there was lots of AI
producing lots of fake news
and distributing it for
a purpose, for a result.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Ladies and gentlemen,
honorable colleagues,
it's my privilege to speak
to you today about the power
of big data and psychographics
in the electoral process.
And specifically to
talk about the work
that we contributed
to Senator Cruz's
presidential primary campaign.
>> Cambridge Analytica emerged
quietly as a company that,
according to its own hype,
has the ability to use this
tremendous amount of data
in order to effect societal
change.
In 2016, they had
three major clients.
Ted Cruz was one of them.
>> It's easy to forget that only
18 months ago Senator Cruz was
one of the less popular
candidates seeking nomination.
>> So what was not possible
maybe 10 or 15 years ago was
that you can send fake news
to exactly the people that you
want to send it to.
And then you can actually
see how he or she reacts
on Facebook, and then adjust
that information according
to the feedback that you got.
So you can start developing
kind of a real time
management of a population.
>> In this case, we've zoned
in on a group we've called
Persuasion.
These are people
who are definitely
going to vote to
caucus, but they
need moving from the
center a little bit more
towards the right in
order to support Cruz.
They need a persuasion message.
Gun rights, I've selected.
That narrows the
field slightly more.
And now we know that we need
a message on gun rights.
It needs to be a
persuasion message.
And it needs to be
nuanced according
to the certain personality
that we're interested in.
>> Through social media,
there's an infinite amount
of information that you
can gather about a person.
>> We have somewhere close
to 4,000 or 5,000 data points
on every adult in
the United States.
>> It's about targeting
the individual.
It's like a weapon
which can be used
in the totally wrong direction.
>> That's the problem
with all of this data.
It's almost as if we built the
bullet before we built the gun.
>> Ted Cruz employed our
data, our behavioral insights.
He started from a
base of less than 5%
and had a very slow and steady
but firm rise to above 35%,
making him, obviously, the
second most threatening
contender in the race.
Now, clearly, the Cruz
campaign is over now.
But what I can tell you is
that, of the two candidates left
in this election, one of them
is using these technologies.
>> I, Donald John Trump, do
solemnly swear that I will
faithfully execute the office of
President of the United States.
>> Elections are a
marginal exercise.
It doesn't take a
very sophisticated AI
in order to have a
disproportionate impact.
Before Trump, Brexit was
another supposed client.
>> Well, at 20 minutes to 5:00,
we can now say the decision
taken in 1975 by this country to
join the common market has been
reversed by this
referendum to leave the EU.
>> Cambridge
Analytica, allegedly,
uses AI to push through two of
the most ground-shaking pieces
of political change
in the last 50 years.
These are epochal events.
And if we believe the hype,
they are connected directly
to a piece of software
essentially created
by a professor at Stanford.
>> Back in 2013, I described
that what they are doing is
possible and warned against
this happening in the future.
>> At the time, Michal Kosinski
was a young Polish researcher
working at the
Psychometric Center.
So what Michal had
done was to gather
the largest ever data set of
how people behave on Facebook.
>> Psychometrics is trying to
measure psychological traits
such as personality,
intelligence, political views,
and so on.
Now, traditionally those
traits were measured
using tests and questionnaires.
>> Personality tests, the most
benign thing you could possibly
think of.
Something that
doesn't necessarily
have a lot of utility, right?
>> Our idea was that, instead
of tests and questionnaires,
we could simply look at the
digital footprints of behaviors
that we are all living behind
to understand openness,
conscientiousness, eroticism.
>> You can easily buy personal
data such as where you live,
what club memberships you've
joined, which gym you go to.
There are actually
marketplaces for personal data.
>> Turns out we can discover
an awful lot about what
you're going to do
based on a very,
very tiny set of information.
>> We are training deep learning
networks to infer intimate
traits--
people's political views,
personality, intelligence,
sexual orientation, just from
an image of someone's face.
Now think about
countries which are not
so free and open-minded.
If you can reveal
people's religious views,
or political views,
or sexual orientation
based on only profile
pictures, this
could be literally an
issue of life and death.
I think there's no going back.
>> Do you know what
the Turing Test is?
>> It's when a human
interacts with a computer.
And if the human
doesn't know they're
interacting with a computer,
the test is passed.
>> And over the next few days,
you're going to be the human
component in a Turing Test.
>> Holy shit.
>> Yeah, that's right, Caleb.
You got it.
Because if that
test is passed, you
are dead center of the
greatest scientific event
in the history of man.
>> If you've created
a conscious machine,
it's not the history of man.
That's the history of gods.
>> It's almost like technology
is a god in and of itself.
Like the weather,
we can't impact it.
We can't slow it down.
We can't stop it.
We feel powerless.
>> If we think of God
as an unlimited amount
of intelligence, the closest we
can get to that is by evolving
our own intelligence by
merging with the artificial
intelligence we're creating.
>> Today, our computers, phones,
applications give us superhuman
capability.
So as the old maxim says, if
you can't beat 'em, join 'em.
>> It's about a
human-machine partnership.
I mean, we already see how
our phones, for example,
act as memory prosthesis, right?
I don't have to remember
your phone number anymore
because it's on my phone.
It's about machines augmenting
our human abilities as opposed
to completely displacing them.
>> If you look at all the
objects that have made the leap
from analog to digital over
the last 20 years, it's a lot.
We're the last analog object
in a digital universe.
And the problem with
that, of course,
is that the data
input-output is very limited.
It's this.
It's these.
>> Our eyes are pretty good.
We're able to take in a
lot of visual information.
But our information output
is very, very, very low.
The reason this is important,
if we envision a scenario where
AI is playing a more
prominent role in societies,
we want good ways to
interact with this technology
so that it ends
up augmenting us.
>> I think it's incredibly
important that AI not be other.
It must be us.
And I could be wrong
about what I'm saying.
I'm certainly open to
ideas if anybody can
suggest a path that's better.
But I think we're really going
to have to either merge with AI
or be left behind.
>> It's hard to think
of unplugging a system
that's distributed
everywhere on the planet,
that's distributed now
across the solar system.
You can't just shut that off.
>> We've opened Pandora's Box.
We've unleashed forces that we
can't control, we can't stop.
We're in the midst of
essentially creating
a new lifeform on Earth.
>> We don't know
what happens next.
We don't know what shape
the intellect of a machine
will be when that intellect is
far beyond human capabilities.
It's just not something
that's possible.
>> The least scary future I can
think of is one where we have
at least democratized AI.
Because if one company
or small group of people
manages to develop godlike
digital superintelligence,
they could take over the world.
At least when there's
an evil dictator,
that human is going to die.
But for an AI, there
would be no death.
It would live forever.
And then you'd have
an immortal dictator
from which we can never escape.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
[COFFEE SHOP SOUNDS]
[NUMEROUS DIGITAL NOTIFICATION
SOUNDS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]